$Id: CREDITS,v 1.34 2006-01-06 00:34:33 geuzaine Exp $

             Gmsh is copyright (C) 1997-2006

                   Christophe Geuzaine
             <christophe.geuzaine at case.edu>

                           and

                  Jean-Francois Remacle
               <remacle at gce.ucl.ac.be>

Major code contributions to Gmsh have been provided by Nicolas Tardieu
<ntardieu at giref.ulaval.ca> (help with the GSL integration, new "STL
to elementary geometry" interface, Netgen integration).

Other code contributors include: David Colignon <David.Colignon at
ulg.ac.be> for new colormaps; Patrick Dular <patrick.dular at
ulg.ac.be> for transfinite mesh bug fixes; Laurent Stainier
<l.stainier at ulg.ac.be> for the eigenvalue solvers and for help with
the MacOS port and the tensor display code; Pierre Badel <badel at
freesurf.fr> for help with the GSL integration; Marc Ume <Marc.Ume at
digitalgraphics.be> for the original list code; Matt Gundry <mjgundry
at faa-engineers.com> for the Plot3d mesh format; Jozef Vesely <vesely
at gjh.sk> for the Tetgen integration.

The AVL tree code (DataStr/avl.*) and the YUV image code
(Graphics/gl2yuv.*) are copyright (C) 1988-1993, 1995 The Regents of
the University of California. Permission to use, copy, modify, and
distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of the University of California not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
written prior permission.  The University of California makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

The trackball code (Common/Trackball.*) is copyright (C) 1993, 1994,
Silicon Graphics, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Permission to use, copy,
modify, and distribute this software for any purpose and without fee
is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in
all copies and that both the copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of
Silicon Graphics, Inc. not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

The GIF and PPM routines (Graphics/gl2gif.cpp) are based on code
copyright (C) 1989, 1991, Jef Poskanzer. Permission to use, copy,
modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

The colorbar widget (Fltk/Colorbar_Window.cpp) was inspired by code
from the Vis5d program for visualizing five dimensional gridded data
sets, copyright (C) 1990-1995, Bill Hibbard, Brian Paul, Dave Santek,
and Andre Battaiola.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/ANN
subdirectory) copyright (C) 1997-2005 University of Maryland and Sunil
Arya and David Mount: check the configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/MathEval
subdirectory) based on GNU libmatheval, copyright (C) 1999, 2002, 2003
Free Software Foundation, Inc: check the configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Netgen
subdirectory) copyright (C) 1994-2004, Joachim Sch"oberl: check the
configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Triangle
subdirectory) copyright (C) 1993, 1995, 1997, 1998, 2002, Jonathan
Richard Shewchuk: check the configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Tetgen
subdirectory) copyright (C) 2002, 2004 Hang Si: check the
configuration options.

This version of Gmsh may contain code (in the contrib/Metis
subdirectory) written by George Karypis (karypis at cs.umn.edu),
copyright (C) 1998, Regents of the University of Minnesota: check the
configuration options.

Special thanks to Bill Spitzak <spitzak at users.sourceforge.net>,
Michael Sweet <easysw at users.sourceforge.net>, Matthias Melcher <mm
at matthiasm.com> and others for the Fast Light Tool Kit on which
Gmsh's GUI is based. See http://www.fltk.org for more info on this
excellent object-oriented, cross-platform toolkit.

Thanks to the following folks who have contributed by providing fresh
ideas on theoretical or programming topics, who have sent patches,
requests for changes or improvements, or who gave us access to exotic
machines for testing Gmsh: Juan Abanto <juanabanto at yahoo.com>,
Olivier Adam <o.adam at ulg.ac.be>, Guillaume Alleon <guillaume.alleon
at airbus.aeromatra.com>, Eric Bechet <eric.bechet at epost.de>,
Laurent Champaney <laurent.champaney at meca.uvsq.fr>, Pascal Dupuis
<Pascal.Dupuis at esat.kuleuven.ac.be>, Philippe Geuzaine <geuzaine at
gnat.colorado.edu>, Johan Gyselinck <johan.gyselinck at ulg.ac.be>,
Francois Henrotte <fhenrott at esat.kuleuven.ac.be>, Benoit Meys
<bmeys at techspace-aero.be>, Nicolas Moes <moes at
tam9.mech.nwu.edu>, Osamu Nakamura <naka at
hasaki.sumitomometals.co.jp>, Chad Schmutzer <schmutze at
acm.caltech.edu>, Jean-Luc Fl'ejou <jean-luc.flejou at edf.fr>, Xavier
Dardenne <dardenne at tele.ucl.ac.be>, Christophe Prud'homme <prudhomm
at debian.org>, Sebastien.Clerc <Sebastien.Clerc at space.alcatel.fr>,
Jose Miguel Pasini <jmp84 at cornell.edu>, Philippe Lussou <plussou at
necs.fr>, Jacques Kools <JKools at veeco.com>, Bayram Yenikaya
<yenikaya at math.umn.edu>, Peter Hornby <p.hornby at arrc.csiro.au>,
Krishna Mohan Gundu <gkmohan at gmail.com>, Christopher Stott <C.Stott
at surrey.ac.uk>, Timmy Schumacher <Tim.Schumacher at colorado.edu>,
Carl Osterwisch <osterwischc at asme.org>, Bruno Frackowiak
<bruno.frackowiak at onecert.fr>.
