			  SOFTWARE AGREEMENT

			       between

				BUYER

				 and

	     Christophe GEUZAINE & Jean-Francois REMACLE
		Copyright holders of the Gmsh Software


This Software Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "AGREEMENT") made
as of ____________________________________, is entered into between
Christophe GEUZAINE and Jean-Francois REMACLE (hereinafter referred to
as "GMSH AUTHOR") and BUYER (hereinafter referred to as "BUYER").

This AGREEMENT governs the use by BUYER of the Gmsh Mesh Generation
Tool Kit and all its elements (hereinafter referred to as "SOFTWARE"),
which includes source code and documentation.

This AGREEMENT constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of the
AGREEMENT between the parties and supersedes all proposals, oral or
written, and all other communications relating to the subject matter
of this AGREEMENT.  No modification thereof shall be binding upon GMSH
AUTHOR unless acknowledged in writing by GMSH AUTHOR authorized
representative.

1. GRANT AND SCOPE OF LICENSE
-----------------------------

For the purpose of this Article, the term "BUYERS" shall include all
buyer's subsidiaries and affiliates which are 50% or more owned or
controlled by BUYER.

GMSH AUTHOR hereby grants to BUYER a paid-up, non-exclusive, right to
use, modify or sell the SOFTWARE subject to the following terms,
conditions, and restrictions:

1.1 Access to the source code of the SOFTWARE in any manner by any
person not employed by the BUYER is prohibited.

1.2 The BUYER has the right of possession of the source code in
accordance with this AGREEMENT. The BUYER has the right to modify the
software to perform any functions which the BUYER deems desirable.
The source code as so modified, shall nonetheless, remain subject to
the same restrictions on use, reproduction, transmission, disclosure,
translation and access as are contained in the AGREEMENT with respect
to SOFTWARE for a period of 3 years.

2. ERRORS AND WARRANTY
----------------------

2.1 GMSH AUTHOR shall not be responsible or liable for any damages
suffered by BUYER or others resulting from use of the SOFTWARE
including, but not limited to, special, indirect or consequential
damages arising out of or in connection with any errors in the
SOFTWARE. BUYER hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless GMSH
AUTHOR with respect to any and all injury, claim, loss, damage, either
special, indirect, consequential or otherwise, which shall arise from
the use of the SOFTWARE.

2.2 GMSH AUTHOR MAKES NO WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR GUARANTEES,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OR MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR INTENDED USE, REGARDING THE SOFTWARE.

3. CONSIDERATION
----------------

In consideration of the sale of the SOFTWARE granted to BUYER under
section 1 of this AGREEMENT, BUYER agrees to pay to GMSH AUTHOR, the
lump sum of ______________________. BUYER agrees to pay directly to
GMSH AUTHOR any local, state, or federal taxes which may accrue or be
levied due to the granting of this license, exclusive, however, of
taxes based on net income.

4. TITLE/PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
---------------------------

4.1 GMSH AUTHOR represents that it is the owner and copyright holder
of the original version of the SOFTWARE. BUYER acknowledges that this
AGREEMENT grants to it no interest in the title to the original
version of the software. Any copies of the original version SOFTWARE,
in whole or part which are made by BUYER shall be and remain the sole
property of GMSH AUTHOR.

4.2 BUYER acknowledges that pursuant to this AGREEMENT, it obtains
only the right to use, modify and resell the SOFTWARE but that no
right, title or interest in or to any copyrights is transferred from
GMSH AUTHOR to BUYER.

4.3 BUYER shall not remove, alter, cover or obliterate any copyright
notice placed by GMSH AUTHOR on the SOFTWARE.

4.4 BUYER will make best effort to acknowledge GMSH AUTHOR as the
developer of the original version of the SOFTWARE in the user
documentation relating to the use of the SOFTWARE.


For GMSH AUTHOR:


_____________________________
Name


_____________________________          _____________________________
Signature                              Date



Accepted for BUYER:


_____________________________          _____________________________
Name                                   Title


_____________________________          _____________________________
Signature                              Date
